DOCS-1285: Document Micro-RDK supported models (#2072)
viamrobotics/docs: docs/micro-rdk/encoder/_index.md

---
title: "Micro-RDK Encoder Models"
linkTitle: "Encoder"
weight: 30
type: "docs"

> description: "Encoder support in the micro-rdk."

Reviewer: ```suggestion
description: "Support in the micro-rdk for encoders: A special type of sensor that measures rotation of a motor or joint."
```

Author: Done!

images: ["/icons/components/encoder.svg"]
tags: ["encoder", "components", "micro-rdk"]

> # SMEs: Nick M., Gautham V.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
no_list: true
# SMEs: Nick M., Gautham V.
```

---

## Configuration

> The micro-RDK currently supports the following models of Encoder:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The micro-RDK currently supports the following models of encoder:
```
[nit]

Author: Done

> The micro-RDK currently supports the following models of Encoder:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For configuration information, click on one of the supported encoder model names:
```

Author: Done

<!-- prettier-ignore -->
| Model | Description |
| ----- | ----------- |
| [`incremental`](incremental/) | A two phase encoder, which can measure the speed and direction of rotation in relation to a given reference point |
| [`single`](single/) | A single pin "pulse output" encoder which returns its relative position but no direction |

## API

> The [Encoder API](/components/encoder/#api) is limited to the following supported client SDK API methods, which operate the same as in the full-featured RDK:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The [encoder API](/components/encoder/#api) supports only the following client SDK API methods, which operate the same  way as those in the full RDK:
```
[opt]

> The [Encoder API](/components/encoder/#api) is limited to the following supported client SDK API methods, which operate the same as in the full-featured RDK:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The micro-RDK [encoder API](/components/encoder/#api) supports only the following supported client SDK API methods, which operate the same wase as those in the full-featured RDK:
```

Author: Done

---
title: "Micro-RDK Encoder Models"
linkTitle: "Encoder"
weight: 30
type: "docs"

> description: "Support in the micro-rdk for encoders: A special type of sensor that measures rotation of a motor or joint."

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
description: "Support in the micro-RDK for encoders: A special type of sensor that measures rotation of a motor or joint."
```
[nit] I think?

Author: Done, thanks!

---
title: "Micro-RDK Encoder Models"
linkTitle: "Encoder"
weight: 30
type: "docs"
description: "Support in the micro-RDK for encoders, a special type of sensor that measures rotation of a motor or joint."
images: ["/icons/components/encoder.svg"]
tags: ["encoder", "components", "micro-rdk"]
no_list: true
# SMEs: Nick M., Gautham V.
---

An encoder is a special type of sensor that measures rotation of a motor or joint.

> For more information and models supported by [the RDK (features provided by the full version of `viam-server`)](/internals/RDK/), see the [Encoder component](/components/encoder/).

Author: ```suggestion
For more information and models supported by [the RDK (features provided by the full version of `viam-server`)](/internals/rdk/), see the [Encoder component](/components/encoder/).
```

> For more information and models supported by [the RDK (features provided by the full version of `viam-server`)](/internals/rdk/), see the [Encoder component](/components/encoder/).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
For more information and models supported by [the RDK (the full version of `viam-server`)](/internals/rdk/), see [Encoder Component](/components/encoder/).
```
[opt]
